---
title: '"Not Another Blog"'
tags: blog
date: 2017-05-05T23:44:47.000Z
image: null
directory_index: false
---
Hi! My name is James Garcia. Sorry to say, but yes this is another blog. This will be my initial "true" post as opposed to using Lorem Ipsum or [Hipsum](https://hipsum.co) as filler text for my post like I have used while learning to code blogs and todo list. My hope is begin to writing and passing on information that will be helpful and useful. My plan is to write about coding and fitness, which are two of my passions.

I have been in the I.T field for about 8 years, mainly as a Network Engineer, but looking forward to making a career in programming. I have been learning and programming for about 2 years, and really enjoy doing it everyday. I mainly program in Ruby on Rails,  HTML, CSS, and Javascript. My road in learning to code was not really thought out because I was just looking for something new to learn. I had wanted to start building websites so I found a HTML, CSS, and Javascript course on Udemy. Next I signed up for a PHP course, but was not a big fan of PHP, and so I looked into a Ruby on Rails course and it spoke to me, okay not literally, but I found the language to be fun. By this time I was hooked on programming and so I felt like I needed to take my education more serious. I had heard about all these coding bootcamps, and so I began researching them. It was difficult to find one that was a fit for me. It took a while, but at a Ruby meetup a member said he was taking an online bootcamp at [Flatiron School](https://flatironschool.com/). I looked it over and it seemed to be what I needed. So I signed up. I am currently enrolled, and have learned alot. It has filled in the gaps and gave me a structure to learning Ruby, Rails and React (Javascript library).

Flatiron uses an online teaching platform called Learn.co. I have been super pleased with it. They have really put some thought into it because even though I am learning by myself there is a community of other students that you can communicate with via chat (slack). They have incorporated avenues for people to "pair program" and have study groups. Because of my schedule I haven't been able to take advantage of those features yet, but it is great to know that those features are there. Another great thing about Learn is your labs are Test Driven Development (TDD). It has taught me not to freak out if I see an error. I have learn to embrace the fact that I will have errors and I need to fix them. I can always go back and review the previous lessons or resources that they suggested I read or ask question in the community. Not only are they teaching how to code, but how to research and find the answer, which I believe will pay off dividends. 

Like I said earlier I have a passion for fitness. My fitness mainly revolves around training for triathlons. I came into doing triathlons about 5 years ago after doing some running and cycling events. It is often the case that after you do one triathlon race you will be bitten by the bug and want to do more. For those who do not know what a triathlon is, it is a race that consist of swimming, cycling and running events done in succession in the same day and in that order. They have different distances just like you find in running (i.e. 5k, 10k, half-marathon, marathon), but they are labeled Sprint, Olympic, Half-Ironman, Full-Ironman. As you may imagine, to get ready for these races it requires training, and depending on the distance you will need to prepare 2 to 6 months prior to race day. So it quickly becomes a lifestyle. In my experience the triathlon community is awesome. I have met some great people and have built some great friendships.

Thank you for letting me share with you. I hope to come back with some material to help and inspire someone.


