---
title: Run 1000 Mile in 2018!
tags: 'fitness, running'
date: 2018-01-02T21:32:15.218Z
image: null
directory_index: false
---
## The Challenge

On New Years Eve a relative tagged me on a Facebook post. Stating that he signed up to run 1000 miles in 2018 and encouraging many of his friends and relative to join him on the [challenge](https://ilovetorun.org/2018-gold-challenge). It sounded like fun, but at the same time it sounded crazy. 1000 miles in a year?! 

Over the years I have trained for several endurance events, but this challenge seemed to have me questioning if I can do it. Well, there is only one way to find out. So I accepted the challenge. This will be a good thing, right? 2017 was not a great year for my training, and I believe this will be a great motivation to get me back on track. So here is to \#2018GoldChallenge.

Yesterday, January 1st, was the first day and I put in 2 miles. It was not much, but it was a start. My advice to anyone starting a healthier lifestyle is to start small and build slowly. By making small, obtainable, goals it will help you stay on track to continue the lifestyle.

I would love to hear what goals you have set. Feel free to tell me in the comments section.

I will keep you updated to my progress.

### Week 1
I put in 10 miles. Since I have not been consistent in my training I opted to ramp up slowly. I plan to start stringing together some 5 mile runs in week 2. Overall feeling good. I signed up for a 15k run in February to keep me motivated.

### Week 2
I put in 14 miles. I had hoped to put in some 5 mile runs, but that did not happen. I did put in a couple of 4 mile runs. This coming week, I will begin with a 5 mile run, and try to finish it off with another 5 mile run. Durning the week put in some 3 mile runs. Triathlon train is starting, which means I will be putting in some cycling and swimming. 


